# Final Project Proposal

## Overview

We will be implementing procedurally generated three-dimensional terrain using a
noise density function, similar to 
[this example](http://http.developer.nvidia.com/GPUGems3/gpugems3_ch01.html)
from Nvidia.

## Course Concepts Used

One of the most prominent course concepts we will be using is noise, in order
to generate an interesting and continuous (and thus more realistic-looking)
landscape.

Rendering the landscape will rely heavily upon using marching cubes in order to
produce a realistic-looking landscape given a 3D array of values from the noise 
function.

Assuming the terrain generation doesn't turn out to be much harder than we 
expect, we are also planning on using raytracing to render realistic-looking 
lighting and shadows in our scene. We are uncertain at this point whether than
will involve using the exact sort of raytracing that we implemented in our
midterm lab, ambient occlusion testing using raytracing, or simple shadow
mapping.

## Other Software Tools

- OpenGL (to draw things)
- CUDA (to process 3D arrays in the marching cubes algorithm)

## Goals

### Short-Term Goals

1. Develop a density function mapping from points in three-dimensional space to
   floating-point values in order to produce an interesting landscape.
2. Implement the marching cubes algorithm, which takes the floating point
   values generated by the noise function and and sets each to 0 or 1 depending
   on whether it is greater than or less than a certain threshold value, and
   then uses these values to look up the geometry needed to render each point
   in a continuous-looking way.

### Long-Term Goals

1. Synthesize our density function and marching cubes algorithm into an OpenGL
   program that draws the resulting procedurally generated terrain. 
2. Use raytracing or shadow mapping of some sort to render shadows in our
   landscape. This may involve converting our midterm raytracer lab into a
   format that can be used with the framework that we develop for this project,
   or using ambient occlusion testing or shadow mapping (possibly taken from 
   another source, depending on how difficult it turns out to be).

### Reach Goals

1. Implement texture mapping for our landscape by applying different texture
   files to different portions of our landscape.
2. Implement animated controlling of the camera's location, so that the user
   can move about the procedurally generated landscape.

## References

- http://http.developer.nvidia.com/GPUGems3/gpugems3_ch01.html 
- http://paulbourke.net/geometry/polygonise/

## Assessment

We would consider our project a success if we met all of our short-term and
long-term goals.

